>> Stephen: WE'RE BACK WITH
OUR FRIEND BILL MAHER.
BILL, AS I SAID, TOMORROW
FRIDAY, YOU'VE GOT A SHOW LIVE.
>> I'M GLAD YOU REMINDED ME,
I'VE GOT TO LEAVE.
>> Stephen: WE'LL WAIT A FEW
MORE MINUTES, PLEASE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
>> Stephen: WHAT ARE YOUR
THOUGHTS ON WHAT HAS HAPPENED
LAST WEEK?
IT WAS ONE OF SORT OF THE
SADDEST WEEKS ON MEMORY, GIVEN A
CHANGE, MANY SAD WEEKS WE'VE HAD
IN THIS COUNTRY AND ANNEED
WORLD.
DO YOU HAVE ANY REFLECTIONS ON
WHAT HAPPENED LAST WEEK SPH.
>> ON BOTH SIDES OF IT.
I MEAN FIRST OF ALL, YOU KNOW,
I'M A BIT OF A CYNIC.
I THINK CIVILIZATION IS A MILE
WIDE AND AN INCH DEEP.
WITHOUT THE POLICE ON THE JOB,
YOU KNOW, THAT MOVIE THE PURGE,
IT WOULD BE THAT EVERY DAY.
WITHOUT THE POLICE.
>> Stephen: I BELIEVE THAT
THERE SHOULD BE A SOCIAL ORDER
AND THERE SHOULD BE SOME
AUTHORITY.
AND WITHOUT IT, YOU KNOW SHALL
IT-- IN TWO DAYS WOULD YOU EAT
MY LIVER.
(LAUGHTER)
>> AND IT WOULDN'T BE GOOD FOR
YOU.
>> Stephen: OKAY.
>> SO OBVIOUSLY ANY TIME ANYBODY
SHOOTS A POLICEMAN, YOU KNOW,
IT'S JUST ABHOR ANT.
AND YOU KNOW, THERE'S NO ANDS,
IFS OR BUTS ABOUT T SO I DON'T
CONDONE IT BUT I UNDERSTAND
TESTIMONY YOU CAN ONLY LOOK AT
SO MANY VIDEOS OF SHOOTING
UNARMED BLACK PEOPLE.
I'M SURPRISED IT ACTUALLY DIDN'T
HAPPEN BEFORE.
>> Stephen: HUH-UH HUH.
AND SAID FAMOUSLY THAT THOSE WHO
MAKE PEACEFUL REVOLUTION
POSSIBLE MAKE VIOLENT REVOLUTION
INEVITABLE.
>> RIGHT, YEAH.
>> Stephen: AND BLACK LIVES
MATTER MOVEMENT IS TRYING TO
RAISE AWARENESS OF THE FACT THAT
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR A
LONG TIME AND IT COMES, IS PAID
ATTENTION TO AND THEN IT PASSES.
>> THIS GOES BACK TO, WELL,
CERTAINLY BEFORE.
BUT ON TAPE RODNEY KING.
RODNEY KING WAS WHAT, 1991?
'92, SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
I MEAN WE ALL LOOKED AT THAT
TAPE AND WE THOUGHT HOW CAN
THESE COPS GET AWAY WITH THIS.
YOU KNOW, NO MATTER WHAT RODNEY
KING DID, LEAD THEM ON A CHASE,
THEY GOT HIM ON THE GROUND AND
THERE ARE SIX GUYS WHALING ON
HIM WITH A BATON AND SHOW THEY
GET OFF.
THERE IS SOMETHING WRONG HERE
THAT HAS TO BE ADDRESSED.
SO OBVIOUSLY VIOLENCE IS WRONG
ON BOTH SIDES.
BUT YOU KNOW, I'VE BEEN TALK
TALKING ABOUT POLICE CULTURE IN
THIS COUNTRY FOR A LONG TIME.
LIKE I SAY, WE ALL NEED THE
POLICE.
I THINK WE RESPECT THEM BUT
THERE IS SOMETHING WRONG WITH
POLICE CULTURE.
AND I DON'T THINK MOST POLICEMAN
ARE BAD PEOPLE OR WOULD DO THE
THINGS WE SEE ON TAPE AM BUT
THERE IS THAT THIN BLUE LINE
MENTALITY WHERE THEY PROTECT
THEIR OWN.
AND I THINK THAT-- .
>> Stephen: YOU THINK IT'S
DIFFERENT NOW, DO YOU THINK IT'S
WORSE THAN IT USED TO BE OR DO
YOU THINK THAT WE JUST GET TO
SEE SOME OF THE ABUSES OF
AUTHORITY NOW.
>> THAT'S TRUE TOO.
WE SEE IT MORE.
I CERTAINLY DON'T THINK IT'S ANY
BETTER.
I THINK WE JUST SEE IT.
AND I THINK THE POLICE KIND OF
LIKE THE PRIESTHOOD, THEY
ATTRACT THE WRONG KIND OF PEOPLE
SOMETIMES.
SORRY.
>> Stephen: THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
>> BUT IT'S KIND OF TRUE.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO GO INTO POLICE WORK BECAUSE
THEY WERE THE PERSON WHO WHEN
THEY WERE YOUNG, THEY HAD NO
AUTHORITY.
THEY WERE KIND OF LOSERS AND NOW
THEY WANT TO HAVE THE ABILITY TO
LORD IT OVER PEOPLE, YOU KNOW.
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT CANNOT BE
REVENGE FOR HIGH SCHOOL.
AND WE HAVE TO-- .
>> Stephen: YOU ARE THINKING
OF A FEW PEOPLE.
ARE YOU SORT OF PAINTING WITH A
BROAD BRUSH THERE?
>> WE DON'T KNOW.
WE DON'T KNOW.
BUT CERTAINLY, I'VE SEEN ENOUGH
VIDEOS TO KNOW THAT THERE ARE
TOO MANY COPS WHO ACT LIKE THAT.
I MEAN ANY IS TOO MANY.
AND YES, I DO THINK THAT'S A
TYPE OF PERSON WHO GOES INTO
POLICE WORK.
AND BY THE WAY, YOU CAN
ELIMINATE THAT.
THERE ARE PSYCHOLOGY TESTS THAT
YOU CAN TAKE.
WHY DO YOU WANT TO BE POLICEMEN.
I THINK MOST POLICEMAN WANT TO
DO IT FOR THE RIGHT REASONS.
I THINK MOST DO DO IT FOR THE
RIGHT REASONS.
BUT I ALSO THINK THAT, YOU KNOW,
WHEN THEY SAY IT'S A DIFFICULT
JOB, IT IS A DIFFICULT JOB.
THAT YOU VOLUNTEERED FOR.
YOU KNOW.
NO ONE IS CON SCRIPTED INTO
POLICE WORK.
YOU WANTED TO DO IT.
IT'S DANGEROUS, YES.
BUT IT SAYS TO PROTECT AND SERVE
ON THIS SIDE OF THE CARD THAT
REFERS TO US, YOU ARE PROTECTING
AND SERVING.
YOU'RE NOT THERE TO PROTECH
YOURSELF.
>> Stephen: THAT DOESN'T
DIMINISH IN ANYWAY THE TRAGEDY
OF WHAT HAPPENED LAST WEEK.
>> DID I SAY IT DOES?
>> Stephen: NO, BUT THE
IMPLICATION OF THAT WHEN I HEAR
THAT IS THAT YOU HAVE TO EXPECT
THAT THAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN
SOMETIMES.
>> NO, I DISN SAY THAT EITHER.
I SAID I'M SURPRISED THAT IT
HASN'T HAPPENED BEFORE.
YOU CANNOT SHOOT UNARMED PEOPLE
CONTINUE ALLLY WITHOUT SOMEONE
FIRING BACK.
SORRY.
THAT'S JUST THE WAY IT IS.
AND I HOPE IT GETS BETTER IN
THIS COUNTRY.
IT SHOULD GET BETTER.
AND I DON'T WANT TO SEE ANY MORE
VIOLENCE.
BUT YES, I DO THINK POLICE
CULTURE HAS TO CHANGE TO A
DEGREE.
IT'S ONLY BEEN RECENTLY WHEN WE
SAW THESE HORRIFIC SHOOTINGS AND
ONLY RECENTLY THAT THEY EVEN
SAID WELL, YOU KNOW, THIS WAS
WRONG.
BEFORE THAT IT WAS ALWAYS, THEY
WERE DOING IT BY THE BOOK.
BY THE BOOK?
WELL, MAYBE YOU NEED A NEW BOOK.
(APPLAUSE).
>> Stephen: THERE IS SOME
SENSE OF-- WITHIN THE FUNNY PART
OF THE SHOW IS OVER.
>> Stephen: THIS IS ALL BEING
EDITED OUT.
NONE OF THIS IS GOING TO MAKE IT
TO AIR, BILL.
WE'RE GOING TO STICK WITH THE
POKEMON JOKES FOR ALL OF IT.
SO YOU KNOW, WE SAID EARLIER
THAT IT'S HAPPENING ON BOTH
SIDES.
DO YOU THINK THERE IS A WAY THAT
IT DOESN'T END UP BEING SIDES.
THERE COULD BE A SESATION OF A
SENSE THAT THERE IS A SIDE.
AND THAT YOU HAVE TO BE ON ONE
SIDE OR THE OTHER SIDE.
BECAUSE I THINK THAT LEADS TO
ANOTHER ERA OF HOSTILITY.
>> IT SHOULDN'T BE SUCH, BUT IT
DOES HAVE TO START WITH THE
POLICE STOP SHOOTING UNARMED
BLACK PEOPLE.
AND THE POLICE STOP BUILDING FOR
THE GUN-- STOP GOING FOR THE GUN
IMMEDIATELY.
AGAIN, IT IS A DANGEROUS JOB.
I'M SORRY IT IS, BUT YOU
VOLUNTEERED FOR IT IT'S LIKE A
PROBING TOLL GUEST GETTING TO
THE OFFICE AND GOING OH MY GOD,
I CAN'T BELIEVE I'M LOOKING AT
[BLEEP] ALL DAY.
(LAUGHTER)
WHEN YOU'RE A COP, YOU'RE GOING
TO BE LOOKING AT [BLEEP] ALL
DAY.
THAT IS THE JOB YOU SIGNED UP
FOR.
AND THE FIRST TIME YOU ARE A
LITTLE NERVOUS, YOU CAN'T JUST
BAM BAM BAM.
SO I DON'T GET HURT.
AND AGAIN I DON'T THINK MOST
COPS DO THAT.
>> Stephen: DO YOU THINK THEY
ARE TRAINED INTO THIS BEHAVIOR.
>> I DON'T THINK THEY ARE
TRAINED ENOUGH OR WELL ENOUGH.
I DON'T.
I MEAN WE'VE SEEN POLICE
SHOOTINGS WHERE THEY FIRED LIKE
A LOT OF TIMES VERY CLOSE RANGE.
AND DIDN'T EVEN HIT THE GUY.
SPEND SOME TIME AT THE RANGE.
>> Stephen: OR BE A
STORMTROOPER.
PLAF
(LAUGHTER)
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK WHAT
HAPPENED IN THIS COUNTRY IS THAT
IN THE LATE 60ST PEOPLE CALLED
THE COPS PIGS WHICH WAS VERY,
VERY WRONG.
THAT WAS THE MENTALITY.
AND EVER SINCE THEN, WE'VE KIND
OF BEEN TRYING TO MAKE UP FOR
THAT.
AND WE PUT THEM ON A PEDESTAL.
YOU KNOW, WE-- YOU CAN'T
CRITICIZE, YOU CAN'T SAY
ANYTHING.
THEY'RE ALWAYS HEROES.
WELL, THEY OFTEN ARE HEROES BUT
THEY ARE ALSO HUMAN BEINGS WHO
ARE DOING A HUMAN JOB.
AND AGAIN MOST OF THEM I THINK
LIKE THEIR JOB.
BECAUSE YES, YOU SEE SOME OF THE
DISRESPECT.
AND SOMETIMES THEY ARE
DISRESPECTED.
BUT TO BE A COP IS ALSO HAS A
LOT OF PERKS.
A LOT OF PEOPLE KISSING YOUR
ASS.
A LOT OF FREE DONUTS.
A LOT OF FREE STUFF, YOU KNOW.
AND THAT'S FINE.
BUT THAT'S THE JOB.
AND I THINK MOST OF THEM WOULD
WANT TO KEEP DOING IT.
>> Stephen: IT'S NOT A JOB
THAT I WOULD WANT TO DO.
>> BUT THAT'S WHY YOU DIDN'T GO
INTO IT.
AND THEY DON'T WANT YOUR JOB.
>> Stephen: THEY MIGHT.
IT'S A NICE JOB.
I DON'T KNOW WHO WOULDN'T WANT
THIS JOB.
IT'S A VERY NICE JOB.
I SIT HERE, I TALK TO YOU, THEY
PAY ME A LOT OF MONEY.
I WAS JUST DRINKING.
>> YOU'RE RIGHT, I TAKE THAT
BACK.
THEY WOULD LOVE TO HAVE YOUR
JOB.
>> Stephen: THEY WOULD LOVE TO
HAVE YOUR JOB TOO, BECAUSE
YOURSES IS ONCE A WEEK, THAT
SOUNDS REALLY EASY.
>> IT'S ACTUALLY NOT.
CUZ I HAVE TO MAKE IT GOOD.
ANYWAY.
>> OH!
>> Stephen: REALTIME AIRS
FRIDAYS ON HBO AND CHECK OUT
SPECIAL CONVENTION EPISODES OVER
THE NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS.
BILL MAHER, EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR BEING
HERE.